Gerardo, we will talk about project
management, which is a basic knowledge
area taught in all MBAs and
in addition, well, there are
a lot of courses and there are
a lot of people who are certified
and master in project management
and so on.
First, I would like
you to explain what a project
is.
The best way to explain what
a project is is to differentiate
it from a process.
If you think about a process, it's
something recurring, something
you do constantly and a project
is rather what you do once,
and I explain.
Having a mounting chain where I
am pulling tun lathes is a process,
making a tun lathes improvement
project is a project.
While one is constant and
concurrent, the other does what
it does is respond to a
specific goal and that is within
a certain date, etc.
That is, in companies there are things
that we always do, that are processes
that change very little, that always
the same, that you have to
look for efficiency
usually, the chain of mounting
of canes to tun, or whatever,
in our case, do nur turin
of the lids.
And one project would be to analyze how
we can improve the nur turin of
the lids.
Not to do so, but how we
can analyze the main metrics,
put in place, do AB testing, etc.
We know what it is and we understand what
a project is.
What I want to make very clear here
is that project management is something
that is learned.
You can learn from two
ways.
The first is by personal experience,
that is, you have done a number
of projects throughout your life,
you have faced many problems
from which you learn and put
them into practice later, or
the simplest way is to learn
from the mistakes of others.
And there are many places and the
most respected, the Project Management
Institute, where they leave in clear,
besides having very good certifications,
by the way, where they leave
very clear what the lines are,
the good practices based on mistakes
that others have made so
that you go as a project manager.
Let's say that combining
your experience, what you have done
in your context, and combining it with
good practices or otherwise is,
let's say, the right formula to learn it.
This is the project management
certification in the PMP.
Tell us a little about how this works.
Yes, at the Project Management
Institute you have the possibility
of, with certain requirements
met, so many hours of flight, etc.,
you come to prepare an exam,
a super extensive exam.
In fact, to talk about this whole topic,
it would be virtually another master.
and already.
And within that exam, they prepare
you in 10 areas that they have identified
over time, which are 10 areas
that every project manager
should worry about.
If you are going to start a project
tomorrow, there are 10 specific
areas you should worry about.
You are certified in PMP.
PMP is Project Management
Professional.
What is this for you?
And it serves you, among other things,
so that you can approach any project
with many more guarantees of success.
well is.
Because you are knowledgeable about
all the techniques, tools,
processes, methodologies, etc.
And most of all because you'll learn
throughout the history of project
management, what others have done
and who have been successful and
who haven't.
The methodology is to analyze
cases.
and yes.
Analyze it.
well is.
You get an idea of the exam, it is
a subject, it is a temary with a very
extensive theory, accompanied
often by practical cases.
And then, because you do the exam
that is quite complicated,
it's 6 hours, you can't get anything
out, etc.
It has a fairly low approval
rate.
Not everyone who approves it,
but the first one who submits
it, approves it.
And what I want to explain with this is that
it is something very extensive, it has
a lot of branches.
I want the students of Power
MBA to come out of the most important.
well is.
That's what I have to consider
if I want to start making a project
tomorrow.
well is.
And for me, these 10 areas that
PMP mentions, there are three
fundamental and are the management
of your reach, your cost and your time.
It is the famous triple triangle
of restriction.
Imagine a triangle, Borja,
where you have the range,
time and your costs above.
Explain each one of
them in detail.
The first thing that matters is
the scope.
If you don't have a range and when
I speak of range I mean what you're
going to run, what you're going
to do, your final product.
If you don't have that, there is no project.
Unlike, as we said before, a continuous
process, here we have to
have a lemotif, a specific goal.
Give an example of a
specific project.
If you want to do it, you want
to make a website tomorrow, it's
a project.
Apart from your operations you
don't die, if I want to make a
website with a landing page, for
example, that's a project for
you.
And that has in advance that
you define as the project manager,
what the goals will be and how
far you will get with it.
Step by step, specify what will
be that website and even what will
not be.
With that information, it is also important
to read it in advance and as complete
as possible.
That is, in the scope we will
define absolutely everything we want
and the more detail the better,
right?
Not only better, but key.
Because if you want me to budget
a project for you and you haven't
given me the secret,
my estimates won't be the right ones.
So, the better you give me,
what will this website bring?
What information, how will it
be structured, what colors?
What will it serve?
Who will they be directed to, etc?
The more detail, the better.
And from that scope or that I'm
going to do, two big arches
derive.
The first is how much it will
cost and how much time it will take.
And these three, which is called the
restrictive triangle, is important
to master it, because it influences
one with another.
If you want a range or something
to be determined and you want it for
a given date, and I have to enable
more people to work, because
it will have more cost.
If you want to reduce costs,
you may need to either remove
the scope or extend
the date.
These three relationships are essential
for any project sector.
It is then worth the methodology,
which will help us with this data of
a range and with some restrictions,
with definitions of time and cost,
let's say that it is the most
efficient, etc.
We're not going to get into
the methodology, because as we learn
from Scrum, in the end we're going
to learn how to manage projects.
What are the main mistakes,
regardless of whether it is a
traditional management?
What are the most common
mistakes in project
management?
I think the first and main, which
most headwork causes, at the statistical
and other levels, is the failure
to properly manage stakeholders.
When I say stakeholders,
I mean all those involved
who have some interest
in your project.
I will give you an example.
You are taking out a product in the
telecommunications area, you have forgotten
to talk to a communications
manager, who when he learns that your
project will go out on the street,
he tells you hears that you have
not taken into account my communications
issues and stops you.
That is, we are talking about a big
company in which we launch a project
and there is another department with
which it has something to say in
our project, which are the communication
ones or whatever.
We worked and so and so a day suddenly
they come and tell us that this
is not possible.
Either you're in a medium or small company,
you've had a marketing campaign
to launch your product, it doesn't get
the product up to date, which is causing
you to get into trouble because
you've promised something you
won't get to fulfill.
For me, identifying in advance,
along with that scope we
are talking about, all the responsible
people we work on the State is
fundamental and is the source
of most mistakes.
This looks, it's happening to me,
stopers in this kind of things,
lawyers, engineers, developers,
because there are limitations
that don't, that is, we create
a project, we put a scope and
so it turns out that you can't,
I say lawyers because lawyers
say, it's that as you do
this you have a problem.
I think, for example, my great
experience was more than...
Or the engineers, forgive me, they say,
it is not possible to commit.
In other words, the solution is not viable.
This is not viable, it is not
technically viable.
You have been working and it
cannot be done.
This cannot be done and invalidates
the whole project, so one
advice you said is to take into
account all stakeholders, all
people who will have some
involvement.
Yes, and keep in mind, not only
once, that some stakeholder
map I have it there and leave
it on the desk, but I have
it constantly monitored.
The main recommendation is to create
a map of stakeholders.
and yes.
well is.
Keep it always open, open.
That is, ask yourself, who are
the people who have any implication
and make a list?
Yes, a second quite common mistake,
and we talked about it a little earlier,
is the management of the range.
Everything that will enter the
project is important to have
it well identified in advance.
Why is it?
Because if I don't have it identified and
it's a very common mistake that
begins in a project without having it
well structured, what will be done?
Thro the project...
What is being done and what is being achieved?
Exactly, that throughout the
project, when it goes halfway, it
turns out that what is being
done is not what you wanted and
you get the project back on top.
We need to make a new budget
because we need to make a new
budget.
Getting more resources, and so on.
Have very well defined requirements
on what and how, have them
negotiated and agreed between
all stakeholders and then
monitor them on another key factor.
Well, very clearly
And last, and also a classic,
are the risks management.
I have seen during my experience
many project managers who have the
risks identified, but then they are
not above them and are not constantly
seeing them and they can happen
things like a banking law where
you have to touch data protection
and you are doing a project that
you have not taken into account,
that a week before taking it
out you can not do it because
it is that already the law
is above you.
Having clear what your risks are
from all points of view, political,
economic, legal, internal of the
company and above all then monitor
them, see their probability occurrence
and have a plan to mitigate it
is another of the great classics
that is learned and that is
the most important.
I will briefly summarize
the three.
One, you have to take into account
all stakeholders, all people
who will have a certain...
Persons or groups of interest who
will have some implication in the
project, even if it is not direct.
All you have to do is make
a list or a map.
Two, make an effort to define the
range very well.
Sometimes, and I say, sometimes it is laziness.
It's like we're commissioning something
to someone and it gives you a lot of laziness
to make that initial effort to define
the scope.
And that is ultimately a problem.
This is also very typical, it is
true that it is very typical when you
order it to external suppliers,
they usually require it from
you and they usually bother you when
they require it because I don't
want to devote so much time, what
I want is that you do it, but
in the bottom is a mistake.
That is, what you need to do
is devote that initial time
to define the scope, the goals,
the keys, such.
Exactly, the more time
you invest in that phase,
the less head odors you will have later.
That that.
Finally, you talk about the risk.
There is also a need to start
identifying risks.
This is what you need to prepare for, expect
the best, but prepare for the worst.
And that's already true, because there
can be risks, threats that you haven't
taken into account and that then
arise and invalidate everything you've
done.
They are the three big problems that
are usually found in that if you
work them and then combine it doing
a PMP or trained in that, because
you have all the guarantees of
success to be a great project
manager and manage projects.